my name is kyle porter i'm the founder
and ceo of salesloft
we help inside sales organizations and
sales teams that are driven by sales
development convert more prospects into
qualified opportunities
it didn't start off as this you know
this wonderful journey really what
happened was
start the company 2011 2012
into the year boom like tanked out i had
to start the company over from totally
scratch
like we hit our head up against the wall
really really hard in the first 14
months
salesloft has raised 100 million dollars
that puts our valuation at 1.1 billion
you're out there and you have a sales
process and it doesn't
require significant sales skills
then you should be skeptical
welcome everybody uh i'm super excited
here
to at our fun sass university day to
have a good friend and one of my
favorite founders cal porter ceo
and founder of salesloft um kyle thanks
for joining us
oh well thanks for having me i'm
incredibly excited about today and i
know we've got a great audience and
looking forward to
sharing our story and sales often
there's so many ways sales off's
interesting i don't know how many
generations of sas we've had
kyle and i met early through saster
maybe 2013 or so
my generation when we know there was one
unicorn it was salesforce that was all
there was of my generation
when sales off came out we we saw that
that sas was picking up but we still
didn't know we didn't know how big it
was sales now worth 1.1 billion
but that was almost a dream when we met
right we didn't have any of these
companies to look up to
and the market we didn't know how big
the markets were right the overall we
weren't sure
how many how many products does a sales
team really need how big can these
markets be and it was murky
and we look at today and it seems like
every niche can be a billion dollar
niche right so
you went we went through this phase you
went through this phase where we just
didn't know
how big a new market could be right and
you're helping create a new market which
is
fun and scary but you've never lost your
commitment or enthusiasm to the mission
uh which um which is tough um
so there's a couple things i want to
talk about today but maybe let's skip to
that point
first because um talk about just a
little bit what's the journey where did
you start what was the initial
vision how is sales life changed and how
have you tilted like how has your
customer changed your persona change
your deal size change
yeah well great thanks for asking so i
mean there's been so many things that
have changed but there's one that has
stood the test of time since the very
beginning i had been
in sales my whole life going back to my
childhood and i had always sold in a
different
way where i was you know really trying
to add value and connect with my buyers
to
to you know deliver excellence for them
and so i had this vision that
you know with technology and the
internet and all these tools that
existed
how are sales people still stuck in the
dark ages of the way that they
you know deliver experiences to their
buyers and i wanted to create a world
where
where sellers were loved by the buyers
they served where they
you know worked to understand them in
unique ways and delivered excellence in
terms of value and what would happen is
that would allow them to maximize their
revenue potential
but that never changed you know we
talked about sincerity in sales
and um and then you know everything from
there changed what are the specific
problems how are we solving them
with which products and that's just
morphed a ton as you
you know of course and happy to share
more but that's kind of the essence of
the beginning of that
is you know clear visions never changed
but
lots of navigation through making that a
reality so let's go back
a little bit just for fun so in the
beginning you actually had to drop a
seven million dollar product line right
a seven million dollar not only was it
doing seven million revenue
but despite issues it was insanely
profitable right it was generating
massive amounts of free cash flow
and you dumped it entirely to build what
it sells off today so
what what are the lessons learned
looking back on that well there's an old
proverb right like a wise man built his
house upon the rock
you know someone else built it on the on
the sand and i think that was a product
built upon the sand
and um you know i remember there was an
era of these companies that were
the feeds for the social networks like
gnip and there was a couple other ones
that was before us
of course and they had these you know
big aspirations and valuations they went
away and
we were leveraging data that existed on
social media
to help companies generate lists of
contacts to communicate with
and we knew from the beginning that this
wasn't the long-term play for us but
it went from zero to four million in
less than two years and then in the year
that we shut it down
it went from four million to seven and a
half million that year um
but earlier in the year we had built
this new product that is now our core
of sales loft it's the cadence product
and um it's
it's what's what is now defined as sales
engagement but we realized the old
product didn't have legs it didn't
fulfill our mission the right way
and we couldn't build a billion dollar
business you know under that product so
i think it was when i when when you
introduced me to jason
at emergence um the old product was a
three to four million dollar arr
business and the new product was like
150k
yeah and uh barely offered off the
ground
and i said hey i've got this product
that's doing really really well but i
want you to invest in this new product
because this is the future
and you know it worked out i remember we
had a candlelight vigil for the old
product
and we sang a few songs and lit some
candles and
and you know sent it on its way so you
know you kind of
go through some interesting milestones
on the journey and who and from the
and just because what folks these days
are actually more interested in the
early days because now everyone believes
they can do it when you and i met
no one was really sure we could do it
right so people just wanted to know
what it was like today but they but
people now want to learn this the
stories because they believe so
when you started talk a little bit about
how how the buyers and personas changed
right because in the early days you know
we were all
we're all excited about how we could do
email automation for sales professionals
right
but in the early days and i think today
it's always been almost impossible to
sell to the ae or the sdr right i mean
they have no budget right
and they don't spend anything how has
all of this changed
how is the size that like the size of
customers the deal size the stakeholders
in a deal
right the roi how's that changed from
the early days uh tremendously of course
i mean
in the very beginning we were selling
the data and it was marketing that was
buying a lot of it
and they were slamming it in those
marketing automation grinders and
turning the wheel
and spitting out all that email spam and
seeing what would hit and if there was a
response or if someone clicked it would
raise a score
but we knew that wasn't right and that
didn't create that environment where
sellers were loved by the buyers they
serve or delivering that buyer with an
incredible experience
so the next wave while we were still
selling data
was kind of email merge and there was
tout app was out at that time i think
they were the hottest one and
yesware and i remember we used those all
seemed slick at the time right they all
seemed slick didn't they
yeah yeah but they also were one channel
and they were thinking about it in a
very automated way and what we did is we
started chair siding with great reps
and we would see how they would connect
with their buyers they had these
spreadsheets with all the touch points
they wanted to make they were doing it
multi-channel
they were researching them to get
information and value so that when they
connected with the buyer they wouldn't
be seen as spammy or they'd be seen as
relevant and potentially helpful
and so we wanted to map all that out how
do you create a multi-touch
uh cadence that's not just email that
injects
uh relevancy into that messaging so the
buyer receives it warmly
and the original mission for that was
let's be the application of record for
sdrs
because this new thing of sdrs and you
saw predictable revenue come out
and people were jumping on that
bandwagon but it was sas
companies and it was series
c you know kind of that was the sweet
spot early on but that just kept
morphing and morphing and today
you know sales off's the only complete
sales engagement platform in the
marketplace
there's companies that sell cadences
there's companies that sell conversation
intelligence
there's companies that sell deal
management but only sales off brings
all of those together in one platform
and companies don't want
to go to three different providers for
data security legal privacy integrations
phone
email calendar best practices change
management all those things
and so you know we're growing very
rapidly so we serve big tech companies
like google and linkedin
we serve you know industrials
manufacturing companies healthcare
financial services in the states
globally
uh but also still serve small businesses
so it's really expanded and it's not
just
sdrs but it's aes frontline managers
csms even
okay i really want to dig into that
platform question because it points
super interesting but before i do i
don't want to forget
that go back in time a little bit when
you talk about
products a generation or two ago toutapp
and yesware that were very slick in
their time right i mean
these were things that people hadn't
done before right but what's interesting
is
i don't think that those pro one of
those products was built by someone that
really understood email marketing right
from the marketing side i know the other
background but your point about
i should know the term side carding with
aes and sdrs talk about that a little
because that's where you learn right so
you went out and sat
next a little harder during covid but
you can do it on zoomer whereby but
you sat next to 20 100 reps and really
learned what their problem was
yeah i mean you know uh you know one of
our early investors david cummings and
he built
the atlanta tech village which was
really the first great
accelerator in atlanta yeah
and um and so we were there with you
know 15 20
other startups that had you know more
capital and more
traction than we had and so we would
just go sit with their teams and watch
them and literally and then we'd be like
go here click this download this thing
that we just created and i'm going to
come back tomorrow and see if it's added
value you know or ask you why you didn't
use it
and so we did a lot of that really early
on and and um and we still do i mean
we've got value engineering teams when
we're engaged with an enterprise
customer
they're doing chair sides early on and
they're doing them often
because we want to really be able to
paint that picture for how we're going
to transform your organization so
yeah i think there's a ton of value in
that and it's you know the company that
cares the most about the problem they're
solving
is going to be the one that wins and
that is going to figure out how to solve
it the best and so that's what we know
that's kind of a hallmark of the way we
operate yeah i think
i i get so concerned when i see
entrepreneurs that think they understand
a domain but don't do the chair side one
way or the other however you do it so
that is
that's a super interesting case study
about one way to break out so
platforms platforms it's interesting
right i mean it used to be a bad word
right um but buyers are fatigued
right buyers are fatigued and yet and
yet we still when something
i want to come to this next you can
still break out if you have something
that hasn't been done before right but
talk about a platform i mean the truth
is uh i've talked about this with
with lots of folks um from darmesh with
hubspot we talked about it as they're
expanding their crm and others but
you the platform can't be perfect at
everything right not every module can be
as great as a standalone vendor
so how does that matter where do you
need parity where do you need to break
out how
do what are buyers thinking um and
what's the trade-off there for buyers
today yeah great question i mean i think
one of the things maybe we got lucky and
there's definitely luck involved in it
but
this cadence engine which is the
communications platform that sits on top
of whatever crm you have and holds your
reps accountable to all the actions they
need to take
it becomes the cue for them to execute
on all those activities
phone email social other that has uh you
know become really the core of this kind
of new wave of digital sales
technologies
so we're fortunate that that's one that
we evangelized and helped create the
category for
so that's been great right and then
there's been a bunch of others that have
come into the space
and you know conversation intelligence
is a great example
these solutions help you record and
analyze the conversations you're having
with customers
you transcribe them to text they give
you a place to play them back you can
have libraries for reps to get onboarded
coached you can share with the product
and implementation teams we saw that and
we said
hey we'll build integrations with the
providers our customers started using
them and loving them
we didn't see that as a standalone
category it had a lot of dependencies on
sales engagement
on our product so we went out acquired
one and built it and now it's part of
our offering
and so you know if you want to buy
conversation intelligence
cadence you know product and if you want
to buy a deal management product you've
got to go buy from three different
providers if you don't buy from us
and we make it easier on our customers
by offering that and really at the end
of the day it's
like the empathy for the customer
understanding of their problems
being the best place for them to solve
them that's what we want to do and be
focused on so that's where the platform
comes from
now do you want to chat about a little
more but let's flip it around for a
minute and i i
admit i'm a few years out of date but
salesforce introduced a broadly
competitive product at least for
cadences didn't they what's it called i
forget what it's even called um
salesforce high velocity sales cloud
okay now
i could flip and i actually have never
used the product but in theory i could
flip that around like maybe high
velocity sales does not do as much
as you do but it's part of the product
it's built in
it's one sku it's one it's one bundle it
works out of the gate maybe it doesn't
do as much
but uh is is it how i'm flipping that
argument around because there's a
there's a little piece not all of what
you do there's a piece of what you do
that is in another platform that you
attach to
right yeah any thoughts on the other
side how much better do you have to be
than that built in how much better do
you have to be yeah
you have to be you know the reason i
mentioned we got lucky on building the
sales engagement the cadence piece is
because you have to be
you have to be best in class at the core
yeah and so we're best in class at the
core we've got
years and years and years of edge cases
and staying super close to the customer
and being very nimble and moving fast i
mean the salesforce hvs
is a you know one of 20 plus skus right
and they've got tableau to digest now
they've got slack to digest
um it's going to be hard for them to and
they got 100 million dollar deals
they're out there doing with their other
products
um so it's difficult i think it's two to
three years behind and
and not moving as quickly as we do but
salesforce is a great business and
they've got a great crm and other
products
we just don't see them as a super
competitor you know given the the speed
that we move at and how close we stay to
the customer
do you find um when i when i got to know
thiago at talk desk
um that was just after zendesk had
introduced what seemed to be a
competitive product and
when we talked again he said his heart
just dropped when he announced it
and then quickly it became a massive
source of leads
because the zendesk product worked but
it was very feature-poor right
does the salesforce product generate
leads for you when customers try it out
and see they need more does that not
happen first of all
not not really it's not um they haven't
put
you know a ton of marketing behind it
like they may have with einstein or some
of the other things that you've seen
from them in the marketplace
i think um and they sell it to they try
to sell it to cios and cfos versus kind
of the business line leaders and the
sales leaders and revenue leaders
um so you know it'll come up in
evaluations we've had companies that
were using it that it got bundled in on
their renewal and then they wanted to
move to us so that's been helpful
but it's not as much i don't think it's
as marketed as some of the other things
you might see like that
okay makes sense and then
let me go back to a point you talked
about today with both serving the
googles and linkedin and manufacturing
companies and others
for some apps i can imagine that's
pretty easy to do right at the end of
the day the zoom use case
is similar right for for those
industries i would imagine for sales
loft
the the the exact workflows and features
are quite different in some of these
organizations versus a traditional i.t
worker right
that's literally sitting in like living
remote the remote lifestyle we're living
so
have you had to branch the product in a
bunch of ways and how do you how do you
deal with
the pull from different industries yeah
i think it's actually been
less of an issue than in some other
categories because there's best
practices in how you communicate with
your customers and prospects via phone
and email and other channels
and we're helping them adopt these best
practices and we're
you know kind of bolting right into
their playbooks that they're building
from
you know consultants or even us or you
know best practices on the web so
we fit in really nicely with the way
companies want to sell so we haven't had
to do a lot of
you know one-off integrations or custom
development you know one of the things
that
you don't need to work with funky
vertical crms or other things that you
wouldn't have thought
not at this point and and we've made the
api very open and extensible so we have
companies that do integrate to their own
crm but they do the work themselves
versus us
kind of deploying to make that
integration work
but we've seen the thing that we've seen
the most of his enterprise security
needs as we've scaled
so that's where we've really spent a lot
of effort time and attention and that
was you know a learning lesson for me
but it's been an awesome one
you know we deployed a product so one of
the things about sales engagement and
most of these kind of sales tech
companies is they want to integrate with
your email
serv server right they want to help you
kind of send the right messages to the
right customers
and that's important because if you use
the mailchimp or the you know part
eloqua marketo that's a transactional
email server that's picked up
transactionally it looks like it came
from that type of system
so using the email server is really
important we developed this product
in partnership with one of the very
large enterprises out there
to allow them to have a middleware where
all their server traffic would come to
the middleware and then all of our
sales off capabilities would come there
as well so we wouldn't have full access
unfettered to their
you know email server but they've been
able to get all the the benefits and
that's been a big differentiator for us
with these large enterprises so i think
a lot of enterprise stuff has happened
um from a development perspective but
it's scalable out to the other companies
and and and rough and tough can you
by becoming more enterprise doing doing
the everything from
security all the way to this sort of you
know more protection for data can you
drive your deal size up by that i i do
will enterprises in essence pay more to
get the level of enterprise grade
software that they want
yeah and they're also paying more by
nature of the fact that they have more
seats
right so we're charging by seats so a
company that's got
you know 2 000 sellers is going to pay a
whole lot more than a you know
a 10 person team i think one of the big
challenges when you're looking at
enterprise needs is
you know salesloft is smb to enterprise
can we keep the usability the
functionality the ease of use
um for the smb as we're also building
for enterprise
and that's been one of those things like
if you go back to board meeting after
board meeting after board me that's
always been a discussion
should we see to lower into the market
or should we stay that way and and i've
always said we're s p to enterprise
because you know we want to serve this
entire market we want to own this
category we want to transform this
profession oh by the way
you know the googles of the world are
going to call on those series b
you know excellent sales operators to
come join their firm in their
organization too so we want to
i think the by the way the first ever
saster blog post i read was about second
order revenue
yeah i never forgot it i was sitting in
cummings office at pardot with uh the
ceo of rigger who just sold his company
to splunk
and he goes you got to see this he
turned his laptop that was the first
time i knew of jason lincoln it was
second order revenue
and so i never forgot about that but i
think that's been a big
big reason why we've stuck to making
sure that we deliver for all sizes of
companies
and how do you um do you segment your
sales team
how do you deal with internal conflicts
with natural energy going to enterprise
right there is even if you want to stay
in the market which i'm
as you know i'm the biggest champion of
right because when you leave the bottom
you never go back do you
but how do you allocate resources both
sales and marketing and engineering
resources
well i mean that all comes from being
operationally healthy and
you know that's a i think if there's you
know this is a game of creating
differentiators once you've picked the
right problem and category and you're
executing it's all differentiation game
and for us the number one differentiator
we have is organizational health
you won't find another company with the
amount of reviews
in sales tech that has the same glass
door reviews that we do period
you just won't find it and and what that
means is is that we're
very rigorous about okay we're coming
into the year here's the theme for the
year
here's our vision vision mission values
here's the core strategies for the you
know the 18-month core strategies
with the goals and here's the way we're
finding those metrics and then we're
refreshing those through okay
okay ours on a quarterly basis so
enterprise is not just running away with
the show
right they get that segmented planned
approach that follows with the
the you know the projects that are
assigned to it and there's no core
values that matter more there's no core
strategies that matter more
than be the best place to be a customer
of and that's across the whole board so
that
takes priority over everything else and
then be a best place to work
and then enterprise international
partners things like that happen
but i think it's all through the
planning process and you know the
company planning
has to feed right into the product
strategy product strategy and planning
which is all the execution
and you just got to be aware of what
things are that are most important to
you and make sure you don't do too many
things
well let's dig into that it is it is um
i i missed the glass door thing although
i'm not surprised you'd be so high rated
on glass door it's definitely
an investment right uh i always said in
the early days people would ask me about
sales loft and you and you know i
obviously recommended you to quite a few
people and i said um
you know people are always going to want
to bet on kyle right
it's a compliment but what i really
meant is the investment that you were
making in culture and people was always
high right
um so i and i wanted to queue up that a
question you know you're
it's a competitive category you're in
right it's not there's not infinite
competition which is interesting
it is interesting but you are the
highest ranked vendor on g2
um what let me flip that around where
what
you talked a little bit about enterprise
and platform what what are maybe some
things you wish you'd done
earlier like you've gotten in earlier
than you did
yeah i think about this a lot you know
when you ask questions like that it's
always hard to answer because you never
know if you would have been the company
that you would have been if you would
have changed things dramatically
but one of the things is i didn't never
expect that it would grow as the
category
would grow as fast as it has yeah and so
i would have invested more money into it
i would have moved into enterprise
sooner i would have moved international
sooner i would have moved into vertical
sooner
you know it's kind of like monday
morning quarterbacking in hindsight of
course
but i would have just invest every time
that we raised a round of capital
we raised it not fully knowing the size
of the market as we know it now
and we also raised it not knowing that
the economy would thrive the way the
economy has thrived
yeah and so from that perspective we
were always um you know we weren't
hesitant or resistant but we also
weren't like out over our skis
and so we'd raise the capital that we
thought we needed to get to the next
you know milestone and uh but i'd tell
everyone how much bigger this market's
going to be than i even imagined
it to be i remember you always had this
thing you said hey
if you want to raise money predict the
future for me and i think i sent you an
email once and it said predicting the
future that was like the subject line i
was like here's what's going to happen
and i don't think i thought as big then
as i've even realizing now
you know so i think that's probably the
big one well what is
let's take that to the other end um you
know now that
now that you are a unicorn right um
which is just a milestone today right um
and we we can chat about a little bit
but now you can see the future even more
clearly maybe not ten years but
certainly three to five years out right
so when you're a three billion dollar or
ten billion dollar company right which
now you do believe right maybe back then
it was murky
what do you look like tell me what you
look like at a three billion dollar
company
right and then a 10 billion what do you
what do you want the product to do
what's going to change what
how's the market going to change right
yes it's bigger but it's dynamic right
the market isn't static is it
yeah i mean there's a way to digitally
sell and that's the way that we will
adopt over the
coming three five ten years and so
companies will have a digital sales
uh you know application of record and
you know that's not going to be the crm
because the crm is really an enterprise
database
but that uh digital sales application of
record will cover
all revenue activities from the top of
the funnel sdr that's converting an
inbound lead into an opportunity
all the way through to the csm who's
renewing upgrading cross-selling and
engaging with their customer
and all of those things that they're
trying to achieve will be
boosted by the set of technologies that
we've baked into our platform
whether it's the sales engagement that's
the communications queue the
conversation intelligence which is
capturing the voice of the customer
the deal management that's helping you
walk through your pipeline and forecast
and all open up so that reps can
you know always stay on task and
management can have visibility into
everything
you know that's the that's the essence
of what we're seeing here and it's every
company who sells to their customers
in prospects via phone and email right
yep and uh and that's every vertical and
and
global and so it's a multi-billion
dollar ar category
and uh and you know our mission is to
change the profession and
be a long-standing you know independent
business in this space
and are there are there one to two big
pushes that you have
on development product market insertion
any big
big hills you want to climb to get there
yeah i mean i think the big one for
everyone is how are we using data and
how are using data to accelerate the way
people act
and i think there's some flawed views in
this space and you've seen a lot of
companies that have really
bet on ai for sales really heavily you
see a lot of marketing from them you see
less results and those companies have
petered out or you know not really
you know made a big impact and so i
think it's all about really looking at
how do you use data to
ameliorate the role of these sellers not
to eliminate it now you're eliminating
some of their function
but you know some of their workload but
you're elevating them to deliver a
better experience to the customer
and i think that's where people have
gotten kind of things wrong is that
they've thought about automating more
than they've thought about accelerating
you know we always talk for sure you've
got terminator and then you've got
someone like
you know iron man or tony stark right
there's two totally different scenarios
there
you know terminator is just independent
on its own robot um
but iron man or iron woman you know
we're humans inside of a robotic
exoskeleton with the brain and
you know we've got the ability to
empower these things and they've got the
ability to power us i think that's the
way
that we look at the future of sales and
so massive investments on
leveraging data to really accelerate our
customers ability to deliver
excellence to their customers in my view
i don't know why people think
you can get rid of sales folks or
they'll be obsolete i think technology
should enable them to provide more value
um and spend less time in lower value
activities
the one i would ask i mean sounds like
you agree the one the one that this
whole ai thing i'd be curious your
thoughts because your forefront
despite all the tools and the stack we
have which is great right we can use
sales loft and zoom and a million other
tools and pipe drive and
salesforce but i still watch every
every group of sales folks i work with
even our tiny little team at saster
there's so many inefficiencies today um
lead scoring has it really advanced
anywhere right
um time management um we're still call
we're still
we're still sending crazy unpersonalized
breakup emails we're still having the
wrong person talk to the wrong prospect
with the wrong messaging
um what is the role of ai i mean i feel
like
just like back in the day just even
scheduling an a was amazing like best of
breed five years ago was an a rolled
into the office where we don't go
anymore
and their calendar was full that alone
was amazing right that alone rather than
doing
literally they'd have six they could do
six demos instead of three that was
groundbreaking
shouldn't there be an ai even a lot of
this is sony baloney
why shouldn't not only the ae have six
meetings but they're the perfect
meetings why shouldn't they be the
perfect demos
why how are we going to get there that
to me is the nirvana for data and sales
isn't it
yeah i mean it's empowering the rep to
know a these are the right target
accounts and customers that we should be
talking to
and then b here's the messaging that we
should take when we engage with them
because it's relevant to that customer
right i think those are the big things
and i love the idea of you know i i love
the concept of meetings as a center
point of
of you know a sales process it's like
that old
billy bean uh you know the the billy
bean story where they come in and they
say
you know you've been trying to buy
players you need to buy wins and the way
to buy wins is to buy runs
right so they start engineering to buy
runs and so i like engineering to buy
the right meetings and
and to buy with the right messaging but
sometimes you need the right messaging
to get those meetings in the first place
right so it's people it's the targets
and it's the the approach
yeah i still feel like we're in the at
best and first base on all this ai
stuff and it's not it's not some magic
app uh
it's got to be the step it might take
five years right maybe it takes five
years to have every comp
but imagine every conversation was the
perfect conversation right
that's how sales adds more value isn't
it if every conversation is the perfect
conversation right they're delivering
the right solution
at the right time on every call you
could be twice as productive or three
times as productive
well one thing that's unique is if you
go back to every you know time we've sat
in an investor's office and raised a
round of capital
you know going back five six years ago
the investors would say something along
the lines of
you know ai is not here right now for
sales but it will be in two years
right yeah and that's been the message
every year since then it's not here yet
but it will be in two years it's not
here yet but it will be in two years
eight years later you know
so that's an interesting kind of
perspective is mobile in many ways right
that's right um
okay let's um let's talk about some
other fun tam
things um so we talked about how
salesloft building a platform is a big
deal right we could spend the whole time
on that because i think it's a
fascinating conversation
even when you and i met i almost thought
there were too many sales apps right
it seemed like i'm i've been doing this
for so long i remember when
when you could literally look at every
app on the app exchange and that was
your universe right today
i read techcrunch and there's like 30
prospecting automation data
i just can't keep up right it's like
it's like what i think it's like what
marketing went through like five years
ago
right yeah but but but um what's going
on can you still break out
and what's the budget like how much how
much are
by how much your customers spending all
in for their sales professionals not
just for sales
but for for salesforce sales loft
everything else and there's i.t stack
how much are they spending per ae and
how much how much is there to go get
yeah i mean i've heard that number has
gone up dramatically over the last few
years and i've seen north of 300
per month but you know
none of that really matters in relation
to like what are the results right
i mean when we have conversations with
our customers about the price of sales
loft it's all about the value of what
we're achieving with it and i think
that's where you know the most important
you know focus should be but i i don't
know if you can break out now
if you're another company i mean i guess
i guess there's a way there's always a
way right i remember seeing your post
and you you nailed it it was way back in
the day you were like if salesforce is
this big and they're
underserving this much then there will
be another crm billion dollar company
you know there will be this many
billionaire and you just you just had
this experience right with pipedrive yep
and uh so i imagine there's some of that
going on but you know i
would rather be in our position to be a
brand new sales tech company right now
it is are you budgeted today and how
often are you budgeted
uh and yeah um
hard to say it'd be a great answer for
our cro or a great question for for
for him um i think so
i know we come in kind of we try to get
ahead of all of it right
we try to be the one who helps them set
the budget so it's hard to say like when
it was there or you know how much we
we added but it is definitely companies
are saying we have to have this
and now more than ever and it's a lot of
the
consultants out there have done a great
job with this and the advisory companies
like
forrester toppo is a fantastic one um
you know gartner and and they've got i
think they've in
all the marketing that we've all done i
think there's a point now where people
are saying it's a must-have
yeah and is that is that especially with
coronavirus
well how yeah and how has that changed
things talk a little bit about that what
what what's the evolution since march
for for you and sales loft
i mean it's been wild i mean i thought
hey the economy is going to crash and
the sky's falling and
we had you know a month of craziness we
lost our conference about the same time
as yours
and uh so we had to go through all that
um but we bounced
back with a vengeance after that and i
think it was so rq1
ends um april q1 the end to q1
was murky and and you know rough and
then q2 just
shot back up and q3 was the biggest
quarter q4 will be the biggest quarter
ever
and so um really you had these trends
already happening if you go back
years you know for the last five years
inside sales has been trending way
faster than field
you know the rise of all these types of
technologies and collaboration tools
the need for sellers to have digital at
their fingertips to give the customer a
better experience
so it just accelerated all those things
it's almost like you know this was going
to happen and it's
almost not even a surprise that it's
happened it's just surprise of what was
the thing that caused it to happen
yeah like if you compare slack and zoom
right iconic are iconic companies right
um slack got didn't really get a covet
boost right
because and why well i mean i asked
stewart when we did our first meeting
but intuitively we were already slacking
right zoom obviously got the biggest
boost of all because it was a paradigm
change
where did how did sales teams and sales
law fit in that did it
did did sales teams and and revenue
teams working from home
was there a covered boost from that um
and what will that look like
when we're all vaccinated yeah there
certainly was i think you know what
happened was that companies that
typically would take a year long to plan
out their purchase or what they wanted
to do strategically to change their
organization
um their people went home and they said
now it's an emergency and i gotta go now
so we saw sales cycles reduced by 35
percent
so there wasn't as much deliberation
there was much to bring in the
consultant there wasn't as much you know
what else do we have to do while we're
doing this
it was just let's go get this solution
that helps our reps stay accountable to
executing on the right actions and
stores everything so that we can see
you know how we're being successful and
i think we chat about this before sorry
i don't think
you have the data yet i want to get it
from your how many customers do you have
all together
um over 3 200. okay well that's enough
to do a survey
so what um are what do you know are our
sales teams
are they going back to the office after
this i had i wrote a post recently
qualitatively saying most of the the
veterans i've talked to the veteran
cross and svps of sales said
they like it they at first they didn't
like it but they like it this way better
they get better data there's better
accountability the reps are accountable
daily instead of monthly and they like
to recruit
across the country rather than have
offices and
but i got flamed a lot by saying no god
i i so miss the pit
the sales floor right so what do you
have data what are you seeing what
what's the sales
floor going to look like after all this
mine's only qualitative as well and i'm
seeing some of that from executives i i
do see more of a desire to be in the
office with colleagues for the
reps themselves especially the inside
reps and the sdr teams
um you know when we hosted opened our
office up
and we let folks come in we we have two
days a week we're in the atlanta
headquarters
where it's called covet mode and you can
come in and you've got to kind of go
through some process
and we track the numbers and keep them
low but it's it's more salespeople than
other departments inside the
organization so folks are coming back to
the office in atlanta
very few and it's atlanta you know but
it's it's not a lot i mean i think we're
hitting like
25 was the max that came in in one day
and we've got you know
400 employees in atlanta probably so you
know
less you know five percent but uh but
the desire
and the surveys have shown sales people
more than some of the other roles
we'll see i mean you know i it's hard to
say it
we'll learn a lot over the next few
months have you learned especially in
sales
when training entry-level folks junior
folks is so hands-on have you
have you guys changed how you do
onboarding and and all that for
entry-level folks during during all this
for veterans we get it right we know
what to do but what about the
what about the newbies yeah well we've
always drank our own champagne meaning
that newbies are going to have a process
and playbook day one in sales loft and
they're going to have a library of
customer calls that they can view to
kind of catch up to speed so
of course you know kind of leveraging
that but um yeah it's work i mean it's
bigger playbooks it's more
intentionality it's not just show up at
this meeting at two
on tuesday at 9 00 a.m and we'll get it
all done it's uh
you know you got to put in the work up
front yeah um
so the new folks it was because when
mark zuckerberg talked about
going he said when we go back to the
office the new engineers still have to
come in right but the veterans don't
have to
um you haven't had any trouble getting
the new folks um
up to speed in in sales and otherwise
during all this no not really and we've
also kind of had that covered push with
the shorter sales cycles and easier
deals and more inbounds so that's
probably helped some of the new reps as
they've come in to get off the ground
running fast
yeah but yeah we'll see what you know i
i don't i don't have you know
too much challenges from that
perspective we're about to host our
first
uh sales uh our sales kickoff right
yeah so that's gonna be in february
that's gonna be in uh early february and
that'll be all digital so it'd be
interesting to see how that goes because
that's
always a thing you like to do in person
yeah the um and the one we were
commenting before we started
certainly what i no matter where we go
everyone's everyone knows that if the
customers want to visit you we're still
gonna
we're still gonna be doing field aren't
we we're still gonna show up to their
offices after all this aren't we
or are we not a lot of folks think we're
still closed million dollar deals over
zoom is it still gonna happen after all
this
we might just show up and take them to
dinner you know don't even come in the
office just take them to dinner
i mean we were talking about it right i
saw the survey and it said how many
sales reps want to go back to customers
and the number's big
but then how many customers want to host
a sales person in their office and the
number's not as big
yeah i think what we've well we seem to
have seen
both and it's it's in venture too we
let's briefly talk about raising the
last round
um before we we run out of time but um
you know
these i don't know whether you met in
person for your last round but the
meetings tend to be at the end of the
funnel instead of the start
right and i and i think we're going to
see that more in bigger deals right
we're still going to visit the customer
but not not to schmooze but they may not
want us to schmooze but when we're
vaccinated
it may make sense for kyle to fly out
for a million dollar deal right right
before it closes it may make sense right
yeah absolutely i mean you mentioned the
fundraising never left
the house for the the entire time and uh
and there's some positives to that for
sure i think some of the positives are
um they get to meet all you know anyone
that they wanted to meet on our team
it was easy what up right i got to meet
people with their team i get to meet you
know other partners easily
you know just and just it's a lot less
taxing of course to
be on a plane all the time um missed the
missed the closing dinner
you know that would have been a fun one
to have but we can do that another day
another time
but yeah it was it was definitely a
different experience but i think there's
i think the positives outweighed the
negatives
so let's chat with that for just a few
minutes and then um
feel free to throw a question or two
into the q a but we will run out of time
do the investors you met for this last
round were they but were they all folks
that were still
tracking you pre-covered or were they a
lot of them raw relationships that that
came out because a lot of these deals
um yes it's done over zoom but we met
kyle before right or we'd known the
company for a while were these were
there raw relationships that that
got to a pre-term sheet or term sheet
level uh well the fund that led the deal
owl rock we had
um one of the the gentlemen who had
joined the fund
we had met at a different fund prior but
you hadn't been
yep and it wasn't the partner it wasn't
the lead partner but it was one of the
individuals in the in the firm and he
came in with a message
you told me three years ago these were
the things you were going to do with
your business and you did them all so
that helped us right that does help
right that helped build trust um but a
lot of them were
crossover investors that are pre and
post ipo you know public investors
that um that we hadn't spent as much
time with over the course of you know
the sales off journey
but we started meeting them about the
last round so
some of them were folks that kind of are
on the journey with us mark suster has
the lines not dots analogy
yeah i think that's a really good one
and so we work hard to build those lines
with great investors and keep those
relationships going but
we also started doing like the
morgan stanley road show where you meet
the um you know public investors
and that's been really cool doing that
and getting to meet them and learning a
different angle of investing what they
care about
and uh you know sharing you know really
helping that crystallize the sales loft
uh
you know game plan for our long-term uh
outlook
what's the um i do we i did a chat with
bernadette nixon from algolia just as
they're crossing 100 million er and
her biggest insight from doing those
which is obvious if you read like our
five inch learnings is
the public markets are okay if you have
um consumptive based revenue as long as
it looks like recurring revenue if you
have 140
nr no one cares where it comes from
right whether it comes from bitcoin
20-year contract six second contract so
that was her learning
what are your any any any new learning
you had talking to folks that are
writing these huge checks that you
didn't know before
yeah i mean it may not be an insight for
some but the the
value of the partners that are going to
stay with you along long term that
aren't just going to come in and buy and
sell i think that's really important
you know the we always knew that
the net retention and you know gross
retention are so important i think
i went through a journey where i was so
focused on net retention and not as
focused on gross
and i think probably about a year and a
half that click to where gross mattered
more because i realized what that would
do to the future of the business
slow down and explain that i i claim to
know a lot about sas but
tell me why you switched your thinking
there um
you know i think net retention for us
was kind of a vanity metric that we
could really
because you feel so good about it about
you so feel so good about being in the
triple digits you think you're achieving
what you need to achieve is that the
point
that's right yeah and you can always
affect it by selling more to current
customers but gross is literally just
keeping your customers happy
and not losing them right and so i think
that one became a more important metric
for us we actually saw something happen
with coronavirus early on where um
gross dollar retention gross uh logo
retention
uh would stay stayed good but gross
dollar went down a little bit what we
found is
more downgrades were happening than ever
before because people were
letting go of reps and that was an
interesting moment where i thought i
never really thought about that you know
always usually gross
logo and gross dollar just kind of stay
the same um but that happened but
yeah i mean it's you know gross
retention is the number one metric for
me
um in terms of you know making sure that
we're delivering our customers with
incredible experience and helping them
see the outcome
outputs of using sales loft and so yeah
that happened i think that was
kind of started to be clear through the
conversations i had on that road show
so gross and so is gross boy i should
know this but is is you
when you're talking with you know
crossover investors and pf investors
gross gross revenue attention is a core
kpi for them that they're tracking
oh yeah yeah i mean we've seen so many
companies
i've done this five interesting learning
where they have the 140 150
revenue retention and they're growing 40
percent and you can see that you know
it's it's not totally applesau you can
see 70 80 of the growth is from the base
right it's true of salesforce 70 of the
growth is from the base
so what is how do you think about what
goals
do you set there for gross revenue
retention i haven't set goals there yet
um how do you think about it well first
on the mix um
on the mix we want to be less than 50
uh bookings from current customers to
just kind of give you that mix
perspective that forces the team it
forces the team to spend the time on
newer deals versus milking the base
right that's right and then in the gross
dollar retention
um it depends on the segment so the
higher up the segment we expect to be
closer to 90 percent
gross retention so enterprise needs to
be 90 and then the lower it's okay to be
in the low 80s i think
um you know s and b and emerging being
in that's classic
that's classic and let me just push on
that for a minute so
because this is super i think it's super
helpful so you
you have you have gross error retention
and then you have logos and you're
and you're pushing arr over i mean you
have to pick you have to force rank
right you're picking ar over logos right
you want to maximize and these are
clouds it it it does hide the conceit
because 90
as good as it going to get right it's
going to it's about as good as it's
going to get and 80 percent
for at for true smb's as good as getting
maybe in very small business it could be
or 70 right so it keeps you honest
doesn't it um
and then that interesting ratio that 50
i guess you have to calculate what you
want right do you find it changes
folks behavior do you have to change
sales comp plans so they're not
constantly chasing
google and linkedin to buy more from you
how does that change behavior when you
when you do that 50
yeah you do that by you know titles
roles and assigned accounts
i think so that's happened strategically
at the at the you know executive level
of how that's all distributed
yeah yeah so reps are you know you've
you've got it baked into the
mix of your reps and what they're
responsible for yeah
it is uh it is it's such an interesting
because it could force so many it's like
it's like how much do you want how much
the more you push on nps the more you
change behavior right from everybody
right if you make it a a a
and i'm a fan of that at least
especially in the early days because it
aligns the company right
forcing folks to hit 50 or more of their
revenue from
new accounts even after 20 million think
back on time
that would that could radically change
behavior if you
make it a top goal wouldn't it yeah
absolutely i mean although i think that
you know i mentioned gross retention as
a primary objective another one is how
well is the customer succeeding with
your solution i heard this story once
from an investor that was working with
docusign where they brought a bunch of
consultants in
and they were trying to find the most
important metric for docusign
and ironically and you've been in this
category with echosign
um they came up with the conclusion that
the most important metric was docs
signed
or you know documents signed right yeah
uh they took some consultants do that
and so for sales loft it's kind of
that's just like a million dollars to
get that answer right from from
whoever it is or mckinsey yeah and so
for sales it's sales lofted if you want
to call it that right it's how much did
we help our customers create new
opportunities and close more deals
and so working on that's a lot harder
metric to calculate because every one of
our customers has a different
environment
yeah but that's really the ultimate
metric for us as a business and i think
every company out there has got to find
that one
you know how do you know when your
customers are successful metric and it's
not just retention it's not just nps
it's not just csat or anything else you
might find it's not the anecdotals
you know it's actual data it's not
engagement you know there's something
bigger than all that i think
what about since you took us on this
maybe this will be like our penultimate
question but
though that is an interesting what about
time to deployment right
i find that this this is this this
solves for so many other issues
if folks can get up and going instantly
versus later right how
what what metrics you use there and how
is that evolved over time if at all
yeah it's got it's gotten a little
longer over time since it used to be you
just downloaded online click and go
um now we're integrated with more
systems now there's some change
management and some process some best
practices
you know we have an implementation
process we always work to be faster than
uh
cpq way faster than cpq way faster than
marketing automation
you know way faster than a customer
success platform that's going to do a
bunch of instrumentation of your usage
data
so i think that's kind of but but it
also ranges from size of company and
what the scope of what we're doing is
you know we've got um you know one of
the 10th largest companies in the world
who is not running a traditional crm
and they're building the integration to
sales loft with their own crm and
our team's helping and assisting that's
going to be the longest you know time to
go live of
any deal that we've done but it'd also
be the most worth it and very sticky
when we're in there
so you know there's examples like that
so it ranges from you know we can get a
emerging company up and running in day
you know a day or two
yeah an enterprise can sometimes take
six months if they're doing you know big
integrations and stuff
it's business process change right i've
found
i found that i i you opened my eyes to
the idea that nrr can be a cheat right
because it can obscure other things
happening right
i've found that most cs teams most
companies ceos who
are shocked when they find out
their their real time to deployment in
production they're shocked they
all think everyone thinks their mps is a
little higher than it is if they don't
measure it they're like oh
i just talked to to jane at linkedin she
loves us but you're missing you're
missing
so you think you're a 60 but you're not
and i also find
a lot of ceo's things get busy they
assume that deployments are rapid
outside of outlier place and they're
like oh my god it's 62 days to go live
and if you measure it and often you have
to segment it right small medium and
large and you
and you make it a core goal to drive
that down magic happens
magic happens if everyone knows look we
got to go from 60 days
this this is product sales loft it's
easy we got to make it 30 days
and it just radically changes post sales
behavior radically changes it because
people their intuition is wrong
well and for us and maybe many other
companies there's kind of two go live
dates
there's a technical we can use it date
and that happens way more sooner than
now we're using the right way with the
right systems map to what we're already
doing
so there's kind of two dates in there i
mean the day of like the reps can
start executing and it's very simple but
now it's is everyone trained to you know
set up this
date does it even count at the end of
the day you if you want to get that nrrr
up and that renewal you want you need to
go live across the whole organization
don't you
that's why we have you know we we really
harp on having graduation metrics
when these metrics and milestones are
hit engagement across users
volume of usage of these modules in the
product when those get hit then that's a
graduation date
and that's when implementation can say
we've done our job yep yeah
all right i know we've gone long let me
just make sure i grab one or two
questions from from just so we have a
few that aren't just me
right um since you talked about this one
since you talked about
you wish you'd gone more internationally
even earlier a mistake i made too right
because when you see it in your base
lean in i think it's learning right if
you have
organic growth for just lean in
and and so this question what global
markets do you think
have the best potential for the space
what what are the what are the hot best
markets either you're in or you want to
go in that have the the
biggest run here yeah so we have a lot
of success in amia
english speaking and non-english
speaking europe
and uh that's an area where we've seen
double-digit growth
i mean i'm sorry doubling in growth uh
significant growth there so we're
investing heavily
uh we see australia as an opportunity uh
because it's english-speaking it's easy
we start we have a bunch of customers
there already that have just bought from
our teams as is and then you start
looking at apac
i think that's the next move for us at
some point in time and you know we've
got customers there but we don't have
any sort of feet on the ground if you
will
but it's ultimately a global business of
companies that want to communicate with
their customers and prospects via phone
and email so
it's just a matter of kind of picking
the right times and i should know but
how localized are you and did you
what would you do on that
decision-making process um somewhat i
think there's always room for
improvement
and uh you know it's get as far as you
can with english and then
you know and then you know get dragged
into it by big you know high-paying
customers
that does make sense all right one last
one i actually don't know what this one
means but it could be interesting
um i probably should uh there's a lot of
definitions around relevance and sales
how do you define relevance
yeah i think the way i'll talk about
this is there's a lot of best practice
you know people that are training sales
folks online especially linkedin
of what they should say when they want
to communicate with customers and
prospects to get an email
to get a meeting and and you see a lot
of junk of like
you know we shared the same high school
or i like this football team and that
stuff's like
personalization but it's not relevant to
them achieving the objectives of their
job
so what we like to do is coach our
customers to understand the vocation
that their buyers are in
what are the best practices and the
problems faced with that vocation
um i'm a digital marketer i'm a cfo i'm
a lawyer i'm you know whoever i am in
the organization you're probably facing
these challenges
here are some of the solutions that
we've seen be wildly successful and so
being relevant means helping them out in
their job versus just being personal and
saying
we both like the same sports team so
when i talk about relevancy
i talk about a seller who is delivering
an experience
to a buyer and when the buyer feels that
they sense
oh this is not just another seller
there's a chance this person can add
value to what i'm doing maybe they
hypothesize my needs correctly
and i've got trust to learn more about
them right
because that's really what you want to
do is you want to establish trust to
take the next step
you want to earn the right to get a
meeting you want to earn the right to
ask tough questions you want to earn the
right
to present your feelings and thoughts
and insights to them and so i think
that's what it's all about is relevancy
is you know
how relevant are you to me if someone
calls me today and they say you know hey
kyle
um you know i know that you uh are
focused on creating a public company
before you're a public business
uh you know and these are three of the
things that i've seen 10 other ceos just
like you
you know struggle with and solve and
here's the answers to them i'll take
that meeting you know i'm gonna listen
i'm gonna take that meeting because it's
relevant to me so that's what i mean
all right one last one but i'm gonna i'm
gonna i'm gonna tweak it and make it a a
different question
this questions are on growth marketing
but since i have you
i want to ask are you the cmo and when
we how long are you the cmo and i don't
mean this literally but in the early
days
you are always marketing whether it's
rogue stuff hiring mark benioff
impersonators
throwing money guns off the thing
creating up being a public persona
interviewing me on the podcast and the
videos but
uh many ceos really are the cmos and a
lot of cmos have told me they have to be
thoughtful about it right and take their
direction
are you the cmo of of sales loft 2 and
how does that how does that impact
everything i'm not the cmo of salesloft
but i didn't drop the hat until a little
too late i
waited a little too long to drop the hat
even after i hired a cmo
got it that makes sense so sydney joined
and i i wouldn't fully give her the role
and i should have done it earlier
but now i have so i've learned that and
she's incredible and having you know
someone that's
fully capable of running this entire
functioning department now
she listens to my crazy ideas and
sometimes they're stupid and sometimes
they're good
you know so i think giving me an
opportunity to still be consultative
uh from an idea's perspective and
weighing in that's really helpful and
and she's done an awesome job and and
and i owe her for
uh sticking with me on the journey and
letting me evolve to
delegating over time yeah we all need to
let a little bit of that in market and
product go if we're good at it because
it gets too complicated right you get
your schtick is great but is that the
right stick for enterprise customers or
for other segments and when our
intuition
there's too much going on for intuition
to to be accurate at scale isn't it
that's right and the segmentation has
been one of the areas where she's really
shown me
you know how world-class marketing works
yeah we tend to just do one
all right kyle this was a great catch-up
anything i think we hit a million things
anything we we didn't hit that you
wanted to touch on
well you know i i just want to say
thanks to you for all that you do for
the sas community and you know we
wouldn't be where we are at sales off
without you i think
you introduced us to jason green at
emergency introduced me to teddy boardy
at insight and
those are our two big institutional
investors and you do a lot for the
community and you know for everyone out
there
stay tuned to all this content because
it helps you get where you need to go i
mean
one of my things is always learn faster
than the rate of my own experience
and being able to see other experiences
and hear them helps me do that so thank
you
all right good now i'm going to insist
then since we checked in at a billion
that we
we're going to do the same thing at 3
billion and the same thing at 10 billion
go into the points
we're going to do it within a week of
the public announcements and we'll do
this will be like a
a pac you know like that that british
series every seven years we're gonna go
one
three ten and track the journey so kyle
thanks sir thanks for taking the time
out um
and uh the next time we'll talk we're
gonna start to be on the other side of
all this right
that's right thank you all right see you
soon everyone thanks
[Music]
you